TECHNICAL----------------------------------------------------------------------

Name: Container Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: 
① Container Monsters are Effect Monsters that appear on the field as the result of a card's effect. They are not included in the Deck. When they are sent anywhere except the field, e.g. to the hand or GY, remove them from the field instead. 
② Cards (except Container Monsters) can be placed inside empty Container Monsters. 
③ If a Container Monster is empty, place another copy of that Container Monster underneath it face-down. 
④ Cards placed inside a Container Monster are placed underneath it face-down, replacing the copy of that Container Monster underneath it. 
⑤ Monsters inside a Container Monster are treated as being on the field for cards, effects, etc. applied to that monster that would be destroyed or removed if that monster left the field (e.g. Equip Spells, counters, lingering effects), and for cards or effects that check or count which monsters are on the field (e.g. "Cyber Dragon", "Harpie's Pet Dragon"). 
⑥ Container Monsters do not have a Level, Attribute, monster type, ATK, or DEF property. Container Monsters cannot be affected or targeted by cards and effects on the basis of those properties. 
⑦ Container Monsters cannot attack. Players take no battle damage from their battles. 
⑧ Container Monsters cannot be removed from the field to pay a cost, Tributed for a Tribute or Special Summon, used as material for the Special Summon of a monster from the Extra Deck, or attached to an Xyz Monster. 
⑨ If a Container Monster is targeted or chosen for an attack, card, or effect, the card inside it is also treated as the target/choice if it is an appropriate target/choice, including if it remains on the field after the Container Monster it was inside is removed from the field.
⑩ If a Container Monster leaves the field by a card or effect, send the card inside it (if any) to the location that the Container Monster would have been sent to, and it is treated as having being moved there by that card or effect.
⑪ If the effects of a Container Monster or the card that Special Summoned it (including lingering effects) are negated (e.g. by "Skill Drain" or "Effect Veiler"), dispell it. (This does not apply in cases where an effect activated and the activation or instance of the effect is negated (e.g. by "Memory Loss" or "Skill Prisoner").) 
⑫ If a Container Monster is dispelled, remove it from the field, and if it has a card inside it, apply the following based on its type unless the Container Monster specifies otherwise.
● Monster: Return it to the field in that Container Monster's zone, in the same battle position it was in when it was placed inside that Container Monster. 
● Spell/Trap: Send it to the GY. If the Container Monster was being attacked, negate the attack after any Chains resolve.
⑬
⑭ 
⑮ 
⑯ 
⑰ 
⑱ 
⑲ 
⑳
Last Updated: 06/01/2026


CREATIVE-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Basis: ABCDEF
Flavour: ABCDEF
Artwork: Created in GIMP using:
● 


COMMENTS-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Alternate text for some of the rules that might prove usable later, depending on designs I want to use:

	⑥ Container Monsters that don't list a Level, Rank, Link Rating, Pendulum Scale, Attribute, monster type, ATK, or DEF do not have those properties. Cards that interact with monsters based on those properties cannot interact with Container Monsters that do not list them. 
	⑦ Container Monsters without an ATK or DEF property cannot attack, and players take no battle damage from their battles.


PREVIOUS VERSIONS--------------------------------------------------------------

DATE: 06/01/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Container Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: 
① Container Monsters are Effect Monsters that appear on the field as the result of a card's effect. They're not included in the Deck, so when they're sent anywhere except the field, e.g. to the hand or GY, they are removed from the field instead. ② Cards (except Container Monsters) can be placed inside empty Container Monsters. ③ If a Container Monster is empty, stack another copy of that Container Monster under it face-down. ④ Cards placed inside a Container Monster are stacked under it face-down, replacing the face-down copy of that Container Monster stacked underneath it. ⑤ Monsters inside a Container Monster are still treated as being on the field for the purposes of cards, effects, etc. applied to that monster that would be destroyed or removed if that monster left the field (e.g. Equip Spells, counters, lingering effects), as well as for cards or effects that check or count which monsters are on the field (e.g. "Cyber Dragon", "Harpie's Pet Dragon"). ⑥ Container Monsters that don't list a Level, Rank, Link Rating, Pendulum Scale, Attribute, monster type, ATK, or DEF do not have those properties. Cards that interact with monsters based on those properties cannot interact with Container Monsters that do not list them. ⑦ Container Monsters without an ATK or DEF property cannot attack, and players take no battle damage from their battles. ⑧ Container Monsters cannot be Tributed for a Tribute or Special Summon, used as material for the Special Summon of a monster from the Extra Deck, attached to an Xyz Monster, or removed from the field to pay a cost. ⑨ If a Container Monster is targeted or chosen for an attack, card, or effect, the card inside it is also treated as the target/choice if it is an appropriate target/choice, including if it remains on the field after the Container Monster it was inside is removed from the field. ⑩ If a Container Monster leaves the field by a card or effect, send any card inside it to the location that the Container Monster was sent to. It is treated as having being moved there by the card or effect that made the Container Monster leave the field. ⑪ If the effects of a Container Monster or the card that Special Summoned it (including lingering effects) are negated (e.g. by "Skill Drain" or "Effect Veiler"), dispell it. (This does not apply in cases where an effect activated and the activation or effect is negated (e.g. by "Memory Loss" or "Skill Prisoner").) ⑫ If a Container Monster is dispelled, remove it from the field, and if it has a card inside it, apply the following based on its type. ● Monster: Return that monster to the field in that Container Monster's zone, in the same battle position it was in when it was placed inside that Container Monster, instead of sending it to the GY. ● Spell/Trap: Unless the Container Monster specifies otherwise, send it to the GY, and if the Container Monster was being attacked, negate the attack after any Chains resolve.
Comments: A little bit of tweaking after looking at cards that place other cards underneath themselves.


DATE: 04/01/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Encapsulation
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: Name: Encapsulation
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Container Monsters are Effect Monsters that appear on the field as the result of a card's effect. They're not included in the Deck, so when they're sent anywhere except the field, e.g. to the hand or GY, they are removed from the field instead. ② Container Monsters can have cards placed inside them, except Container Monsters. ③ If a Container Monster is empty, stack another copy of that Container Monster under it face-down. ④ When a card is placed inside a Container Monster, stack it under that Container Monster face-down, replacing the face-down copy of that Container Monster stacked underneath it. ⑤ Monsters inside a Container Monster are still treated as being on the field for the purposes of cards, effects, etc. applied to that monster that would be destroyed or removed if that monster left the field (e.g. Equip Spells, counters, lingering effects), as well as for cards or effects that check or count which monsters are on the field (e.g. "Cyber Dragon", "Harpie's Pet Dragon"). ⑥ Container Monsters don't always have the Level, Rank, Link Rating, Pendulum Scale, Attribute, monster type, ATK, or DEF properties. Only Container Monsters with one or several of those properties listed have those properties. Cards that interact with monsters based on those properties cannot interact with Container Monsters that do not have them. ⑦ Container Monsters without an ATK or DEF property cannot attack, and players take no battle damage from those battles. ⑧ Container Monsters cannot be Tributed for a Tribute or Special Summon, used as material for the Special Summon of a monster from the Extra Deck, attached to an Xyz Monster, or removed from the field to pay a cost. ⑨ When a Container Monster leaves the field, send the card inside it (if any) to the GY. ⑩ When the effects of a Container Monster are negated (e.g. by "Skill Drain" or "Effect Veiler"), remove it from the field. (This does not apply if a Container Monster's effect is activated and the activation or effect is negated (e.g. by "Memory Loss" or "Skill Prisoner").) (Cards and effects that would negate the effects of a Container Monster are not considered to be cards or effects that would remove it from the field.) If a monster was inside it, return that monster to the field in that Container Monster's zone, in the same battle position it was in when it was placed inside that Container Monster, instead of sending it to the GY.
Comments: More changes to handle stuff I hadn't thought of previously, and to handle other stuff better. Also renaming.


DATE: 04/01/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Encapsulation
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① If a Container Monster is empty, attach another copy of that Container Monster to it face-down. ② When a card is placed inside a Container Monster, attach it to that card face-down, replacing the attached copy of that Container Monster. ③ By default, Container Monsters do not have the Level, Rank, Link Rating, Pendulum Scale, Attribute, monster type, ATK, or DEF properties. ④ Container Monsters cannot attack. ⑤ Players take no battle damage from battles involving Container Monsters with no ATK or DEF property. ⑥ Container Monsters cannot be Tributed for a Tribute or Special Summon, used as material for the Special Summon of a monster from the Extra Deck, or leave the field to pay a cost. ⑦ If a Container Monster's effects are negated, it is destroyed instead. ⑧ When a Container Monster leaves the field, send any cards inside it to the GY.
Comments: Handling some edge cases I forgot to deal with, as well as some general stuff of what a Container Monster is, similar to the rulebook's text for that for Token Monsters.