TECHNICAL----------------------------------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that belong in the Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material listed if you can/have met its Summoning conditions, if any. ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Material for face-up on the field, and for which you have met/can meet its Summoning conditions, if any. Then, pay any costs listed, place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material face-up, and follow any additional instructions. ● Like Ritual Monsters, unless an Evolution Monster's Summoning conditions state otherwise, following its Evolution Summoning condition is not the only way to properly Evolution Summon it. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Material, etc. continue applying to the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card. ④ A material underneath an Evolution Monster is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. It is not attached and cannot be detached like Xyz Materials. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster leaves the field, any materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and become separate cards again. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to the hand or Deck, any materials from the Main Deck are sent there, and the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck instead. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue applying to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same card.
Last Updated: 14/08/2026


CREATIVE-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Basis: Classic Yu-Gi-Oh! Monsters that evolve or transform.
Flavour: ABCDEF
Artwork (1056 x 528 (2:1)): Created in GIMP using:
● Red-Eyes Black Dragon?
● Red-Eyes Black Metal Dragon?
● Metalmorph?


COMMENTS-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Heavily based on u/Ray_V_Xyz's Evolution Monsters

	● Reddit Post: https://www.reddit.com/r/customyugioh/comments/ob6p7t/custom_summoning_mechanic_evolution_summoning/
	● Rules Comment: 	https://www.reddit.com/r/customyugioh/comments/ob6p7t/comment/h3lv8e7/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button
	
Evolution Monster Requirement formatting:

	● None.		
	● [CONDITION].		
	● [COST].	
	● [ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS].
	● If [CONDITION]: [COST].	
	● [CONDITION]. [ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS].
	● [COST]. [ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS].
	● If [CONDITION]: [COST]. [ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS].
	
Additional Requirement formatting notes:

	● If the Evolution Material is referenced in the Requirement, reference it (at least the first time) by name, e.g. "Dark Magician", not "it". If there are multiple options, (initially) reference it as "the Evolution Material" instead. Afterwards, reference it in any grammatically correct manner that makes clear which card is being referenced in each clause.
	● If an Evolution Monster's Requirement is only the additional instruction "Must be Evolution Summoned with (the effect of) [CARD NAME].", use "the effect of [CARD NAME]" for monster effects used to perform the Evolution Summon, whether or not they're the material, to avoid confusion. Otherwise just say "with [CARD NAME]" to list the card.


PREVIOUS VERSIONS--------------------------------------------------------------

DATE: 01/08/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that belong in the Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material listed if you can/have met its Summoning conditions, if any. ● Evolution Monsters' Summoning conditions are typically formatted "You can Evolution Summon this card if/while... by..." ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Material for face-up on the field, and for which you have met/can meet its Summoning conditions, if any. Then, pay any costs listed, place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material face-up, and follow any additional instructions. ● Like Ritual Monsters, unless an Evolution Monster's Summoning conditions state otherwise, following its Evolution Summoning condition is not the only way to properly Evolution Summon it. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Material, etc. continue applying to the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card. ④ A material underneath an Evolution Monster is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. It is not attached and cannot be detached like Xyz Materials. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster leaves the field, any materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and become separate cards again. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to the hand or Deck, any materials from the Main Deck are sent there, and the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck instead. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue applying to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same card.
Comments: The rules for Evolution Monsters don't need to outline how Evolution Summoning conditions are typically phrased.


DATE: 27/07/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that belong in the Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material listed if you can/have met its Summoning conditions, if any. ● Evolution Monsters' Summoning conditions are typically formatted "You can Evolution Summon this card if/while... by..." ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Material for face-up on the field, and for which you have met/can meet its Summoning conditions, if any. Then, pay any costs listed, place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material face-up, and follow any additional instructions. ● Like Ritual Monsters, unless an Evolution Monster "Must (first) be Evolution Summoned" via its Summoning condition, following its Summoning condition is not the only way to properly Evolution Summon it. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Material, etc. continue applying to the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card. ④ A material underneath an Evolution Monster is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. It is not attached and cannot be detached like Xyz Materials. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster leaves the field, any materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and become separate cards again. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to the hand or Deck, any materials from the Main Deck are sent there, and the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck instead. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue applying to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same card.
Comments: Phrasing adjustment.


DATE: 11/07/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that belong in the Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material listed if you can/have met its Requirement, if any. ● Evolution Monsters' Requirements are formatted "(IF) CONDITION: COST. ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS." Requirements may include any or none of these components, if an Evolution Monster has a Requirement at all. ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Material for face-up on the field, and for which you have met its condition and pay its cost, if any. Then, pay any costs, place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material face-up, and follow any additional instructions. ● If an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned by a card effect that ignores its Requirement, it is still treated as being properly Evolution Summoned, unlike card effects that Special Summon monsters while ignoring their Summoning conditions. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Material, etc. continue applying to the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card. ④ An Evolution Material underneath an Evolution Monster is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. It is not attached and cannot be detached like Xyz Materials. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster leaves the field, any Evolution Materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and become separate cards again. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to the hand or Deck, any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are sent there, and the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck instead. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue applying to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same card.
Comments: Updating to match new Evolution Monster templating for materials and Summoning conditions.


DATE: 02/02/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that belong in the Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material listed if you can/have met its Requirement. ● Evolution Monsters' Requirements are formatted "(If) CONDITION: COST. ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS." Requirements may include any or none of these components. ● If a Requirement references the Evolution Material by name or as "the Evolution Material" (if it lists more than 1), this refers to the copy of the Evolution Material being used for the Evolution Summon (unless otherwise specified). ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Material for face-up on the field, for which you have satisfied its condition and/or can pay its cost. Then, pay its cost and place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material in face-up Attack or Defense Position, and follow any additional instructions. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards equipped to its Evolution Material, any counters on the Evolution Material, any other cards or effects that targeted or applied to the Evolution Material, etc. continue applying to the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card. ④ An Evolution Material underneath an Evolution Monster is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. It is not attached and cannot be detached like Xyz Materials. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster leaves the field, any Evolution Materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and all Materials are again treated as separate cards. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to the hand or Deck, any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are sent to that location, and the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck instead. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, counters, other cards or effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue applying to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same card.
Comments: Trying to condense.


DATE: 29/01/2026-------------------------------------------

Name: Evolution Monsters
Card Type: Rule
Rules Text: ① Evolution Monsters are Special Summon Monsters that start the Duel in your Extra Deck. ② Evolution Monsters can be Evolution Summoned from your Extra Deck by using the Evolution Material mentioned if you can or have met the Requirement listed. ● To Evolution Summon, during your Main Phase, choose an Evolution Monster from your Extra Deck that you have the correct Evolution Materials for face-up on the field, and, if it lists a Requirement, make sure you have satisfied the Requirement listed and/or can pay any costs it lists. Then, pay any costs listed and place the Evolution Monster on top of the Evolution Material in face-up Attack or Defense Position. ③ When an Evolution Monster is Evolution Summoned, any Equip Cards equipped to its Evolution Material, any other cards or effects that targeted the Evolution Material, any counters on the Evolution Material, any lingering effects applied to the Evolution Material, etc. remain equipped to, targeting, on, applying to, etc. the Summoned Evolution Monster as if it was the same card they originally applied to. ④ An Evolution Material underneath an Evolution Monster is not attached to it like an Xyz Material and cannot be detached to activate effects. It is treated as the same physical card as the Evolution Monster. ⑤ If an Evolution Monster is removed from the field, any Evolution Materials underneath it are moved to the same location if possible, and all cards moved are again treated as separate physical cards. ● If an Evolution Monster would be sent to a location that cards from the Main Deck can be sent to but not cards from the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are sent to the Extra Deck, and any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are sent to the specified location. ● If an Evolution Monster would be returned to the Extra Deck, the Evolution Monster and any Evolution Materials from the Extra Deck are returned to the Extra Deck, and any Evolution Materials from the Main Deck are shuffled into the Main Deck. ⑥ If an Evolution Monster tells you to "devolve" it, take the Evolution Monster and send it to the GY, but leave the Evolution Material it was placed on top of on the field. Any Equip Cards, other cards or effect that targeted, counters, lingering effects, etc. that applied to the Evolution Monster continue to apply to the devolved Evolution Material as if it was the same physical card they originally applied to.
Comments: Adding some clarification regarding Requirements.